---
layout: post
title:  "Qt 信号槽的连接方式"
date:   2020-07-15 19:35:47 +0800
categories: c++ 
published:  true
tag: c++
typora-root-url: ..
---

## 官网解释

### Qt::ConnectionType
| Connection Type    | Description                                                         |
| ------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Qt::AutoConnection | (Default)If the receiver lives in the thread that emits the signal, |
 Qt::DirectConnection is used, Otherwise, Qt::QueuedConnection is used.
  The connection type is determined when the signal is emitted.                                                                                                                          |
| Qt::DirectConnection         | The slot is invoked immediately when the signal is emittend.
 The slot is executed in the signalling thread.                                                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| Qt::QueuedConnection         | The slot is invoked when control returns to the event loop of 
the receiver's thread. The slot is executed in the receiver's 
thread.                                                                                                                                                                                               |
| Qt::BlockingQueuedConnection | Same as Qt::QueuedConnection, except that the signalling 
thread blocks until the slot returns. This connection must not be used 
if the receiver lives in the signalling thread, or else the application will 
deadlock.                                                                                                            |
| Qt::UniqueConnection         | This is a flag that can be combined with anyone of the 
above connection types, using a bitwise OR. 
When Qt::UniqueConnection is set, QObject::connect() will fail 
if the connection already exists(i.e. 
if the same signal is already connected to the same slot for the same pair of objects).This flag was introduced in Qt4.6. |

With queued connections, the parameters must be of types that are known to Qt's meta-object system, because Qt needs to copy the arguments to store them in an event behind the scenes. If you try to use a queued connection and get the error message:

  QObject::connect: Cannot queue arguments of type 'MyType'

Call qRegisterMetaType() to register the data type before you establish the connection.
When using signals and slots with multiple threads, see Signals and Slots Across Threads.

> Signals and Slots Across Threads
> Qt supports these signal-slot connection types:
> Auto Connection (default) If the signal is emitted in the thread which the receiving object has affinity then the behavior is the same as the Direct Connection. Otherwise, the behavior is the same as the Queued Connection."
> Direct Connection The slot is invoked immediately, when the signal is emitted. The slot is executed in the emitter's thread, which is not necessarily the receiver's thread.
> Queued Connection The slot is invoked when control returns to the event loop of the receiver's thread. The slot is executed in the receiver's thread.
> Blocking Queued Connection The slot is invoked as for the Queued Connection, except the current thread blocks until the slot returns.
> Note: Using this type to connect objects in the same thread will cause deadlock.
> Unique Connection The behavior is the same as the Auto Connection, but the connection is made only if it does not duplicate an existing connection. i.e., if the same signal is already connected to the same slot for the same pair of objects, then the connection is not made and connect() returns false.
> The connection type can be specified by passing an additional argument to connect(). Be aware that using direct connections when the sender and receiver live in different threads is unsafe if an event loop is running in the receiver's thread, for the same reason that calling any function on an object living in another thread is unsafe.
> QObject::connect() itself is thread-safe.
> The Mandelbrot Example uses a queued connection to communicate between a worker thread and the main thread. To avoid freezing the main thread's event loop (and, as a consequence, the application's user interface), all the Mandelbrot fractal computation is done in a separate worker thread. The thread emits a signal when it is done rendering the fractal.
> Similarly, the Blocking Fortune Client Example uses a separate thread for communicating with a TCP server asynchronously.
